README.md, before:

# vuetify-unsplash

###### Vue dialog component for image search and selection from [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/) based on [Vuetfiy](https://vuetifyjs.com) with high customizability thanks to over 30 properties. :gear:

---

## Navigation

- [Features](#features)
- [Installation 🔧](#installation)
- [Getting started](#getting-started)
- [Properties](#properties)
- [Events](#events)

## Features

- Overlay dialog designed as single component for easy integration
- Material design thanks to vuetify components
- flexible use as the number of images and the return object can be configured
- Adjustable to your own design through various properties
- Internationalizable by overwriting the standard labels with properties

## Installation

```
npm install --save vuetify-unsplash
```

or

```
yarn add vuetify-unsplash
```

## Getting started

### ES module

Register the component globally:

```javascript
// main.js

import Vue from "vue";
import VUnsplash from "vuetify-unsplash";

Vue.component("VUnsplash", VUnsplash);
```

or locally (in the scope of another component):

```javascript
import VUnsplash from "vuetify-unsplash";

export default {
  components: {
    VUnsplash
  }
};
```

## Example Usage

The visibility of the dialog is managed by the v-model attribute.

Once the user has selected the required number of images and clicked save, the @result event with the resulting array of image objects is emitted.

```html
<template>
  <v-unsplash
    v-model="showDialog"
    unsplash-api-key="YOUR_UNSPLASH_API_KEY"
    @result="imageSelectionResult"
  />
</template>
<script>
  import VUnsplash from "vuetify-unsplash";

  export default {
    components: {
      VUnsplash
    },
    data() {
      return {
        showDialog: true,
        myImageList: []
      };
    },
    methods: {
      imageSelectionResult(imageList) {
        // do whatever you want with the result array
        this.myImageList = imageList;
      }
    }
  };
</script>
```

## Properties

### Required Properties

| Property           | Type     | Default | Description                                                                                              |
| :----------------- | :------- | :------ | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `unsplash-api-key` | `String` |         | [Register](https://unsplash.com/developers) your application with Unplash to use the free unlimited API. |

### Functional Properties

| Property                     | Type      | Default | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| :--------------------------- | :-------- | :------ | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `select-multiple`            | `Boolean` | `false` | Set to true if you want to allow the user to select more than one image. <br> The result array could than contain more than 1 element.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `min-multiple-select`        | `Number`  | `1`     | Number of images the user has to choose to proceed. <br> **Has no affect if `select-multiple = false`**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| `max-multiple-select`        | `Number`  | `1`     | Number of images that the user can select at maximum. <br> **Has no affect if `select-multiple = false`**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `full-picture-object-result` | `Boolean` | `false` | By default, the [image object](https://unsplash.com/documentation#search-photos) that Unplash sends in a search query is returned as the result. <br>If this information is not sufficient, this property can be set, then [image objects](https://unsplash.com/documentation#get-a-photo) of a query are returned for the respective image IDs. <br>For more information about the object structure, check the [documentation](https://unsplash.com/documentation) of the Unsplash API. <br><br>If this property is set, however, a request is made to the Unsplash API not only for each search query, but also for each selected image when the "save" button is clicked. <br>This depends on the hourly quota (5000 requests/hour) of the API key. |
| `number-of-images`           | `Number`  | `20`    | Number of image objects that are sent by the API in a search query and displayed in VUnsplash. <br> **The maximum number is `30`.**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `images-per-page`            | `Number`  | `20`    | Number of images to be displayed per grid page by default. The user can overwrite this value from a dropdown menu to customize the view according to his preferences. <br> **The maximum number is `30`.**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |

### Design Properties

| Property            | Type      | Default              | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| :------------------ | :-------- | :------------------- | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `dark`              | `Boolean` | `false`              | Set to true if you want the component in dark mode. You could pass your global dark mode variable here if you have one.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| `accent-color`      | `String`  | `"#1976d2"`          | Accent color for the buttons and other elements. <br> **Please pass only a hex color code here!** <br><br>Note: For more customizability, the App Bar is not affected by this property. The properties of the App Bar can be set using the `app-bar-props` property.                                                                                         |
| `error-color`       | `String`  | `"#C62828"`          | Background color for the snack bar, which notifies the user about the selection limits if he wants to exceed them. <br> **Please pass only a hex color code here!**                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `main-card-props`   | `Object`  | `{}`                 | Here [Vuetify properties for cards](https://vuetifyjs.com/en/components/cards/#api) can be passed as an object. <br> Example: `:main-card-props:"{flat:true, img:"YOUR_IMAGE_LINK"}"`<br> This may overwrite the default values of the main background card of the component and change the view.                                                            |
| `app-bar-props`     | `Object`  | `{}`                 | Here [Vuetify properties for app bars](https://vuetifyjs.com/en/components/app-bars/#api) can be passed as an object. <br> Example: `:app-bar-props:"{primary:"#1976d2", dark:true}"` <br>(The `dark` property will make the text and buttons appear white.) <br> This may overwrite the default values of the app bar of the component and change the view. |
| `save-btn-icon`     | `String`  | `"mdi-content-save"` | [Material design icon](https://materialdesignicons.com/) that appears in the "save" button. Choose any one by adding the prefix "mdi-" to the name of the icon, just like the default value.                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `save-btn-outlined` | `Boolean` | `false`              | Gives the "save" buttons the outlined look                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |

### Label Property

The Label property allows you to use an object with the appropriate translations for the used words. You can pass the i18n strings directly to the object. In this way, the component is translated into exactly the languages that you require and does not contain a second translation system.

###### Attention! If you set the label property with your own strings, you **must replace all elements of the object** , because the whole object will be overwritten!

| Property | Type     |
| :------- | :------- |
| `label`  | `Object` |

The object elements are listed below.

| Object element               | Default value                                               |
| :--------------------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------- |
| `appBarTitle`                | `"Choose an image"`                                         |
| `save`                       | `"Save"`                                                    |
| `searchTextFieldPlaceholder` | `"Search..."`                                               |
| `noMatchingPictures`         | `"No matching pictures were found."`                        |
| `itemsPerPage`               | `"Items per page"`                                          |
| `page`                       | `"Page"`                                                    |
| `of`                         | `"of"`                                                      |
| `loading`                    | `"Loading..."`                                              |
| `selectAll`                  | `"Select all"`                                              |
| `cancelSelection`            | `"Cancel selection"`                                        |
| `maxNumberSelectedError`     | `"You have already selected the maximum number of images."` |
| `alreadySelectedError`       | `"You have already selected an image. "`                    |
| `close`                      | `"Close"`                                                   |
| `selected`                   | `"Selected"`                                                |
| `poweredBy`                  | `"Powered by"`                                              |

Full default label object:

```javascript
label = {
  appBarTitle: "Choose an image",
  save: "Save",
  searchTextFieldPlaceholder: "Search...",
  noMatchingPictures: "No matching pictures were found.",
  itemsPerPage: "Items per page",
  page: "Page",
  of: "of",
  loading: "Loading...",
  selectAll: "Select all",
  cancelSelection: "Cancel selection",
  maxNumberSelectedError:
    "You have already selected the maximum number of images.",
  alreadySelectedError: "You have already selected an image. ",
  close: "Close",
  selected: "Selected",
  poweredBy: "Powered by"
};
```

As property:

```html
<v-unsplash :label=" { appBarTitle: "Choose an image", save: "Save",
searchTextFieldPlaceholder: "Search...", noMatchingPictures: "No matching
pictures were found.", itemsPerPage: "Items per page", page: "Page", of: "of",
loading: "Loading...", selectAll: "Select all", cancelSelection: "Cancel
selection", maxNumberSelectedError: "You have already selected the maximum
number of images.", alreadySelectedError: "You have already selected an image.
", close: "Close", selected: "Selected", poweredBy: "Powered by" }" />
```

## Events

### result
Called when the user has selected the required number of images and clicked on "save".

Usage:
```html
<template>
  <v-unsplash
    @result="imageSelectionResult"
  />
</template>
<script>
  import VUnsplash from "vuetify-unsplash";

  export default {
    components: {
      VUnsplash
    },
    methods: {
      imageSelectionResult(imageList) {
        // do whatever you want with the result array
      }
    }
  };
</script>
```

Commit message:

now working without vuetify wrapper

README.md, after:

# vuetify-unsplash

###### Vue dialog component for image search and selection from [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/) based on [Vuetfiy](https://vuetifyjs.com) with high customizability thanks to over 30 properties. :gear:

![Codecov](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/Mailines/vuetify-unsplash?color=true&label=coverage&logo=codecov&style=for-the-badge)

---

<br>
<p align="center">
  <img height="300" src="docs/vunsplash_screenshot.jpg">
</p>

## Navigation

- [Features](#features)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Getting started](#getting-started)
- [Properties](#properties)
- [Events](#events)

## Features

- Overlay dialog designed as single component for easy integration
- Material design thanks to vuetify components
- flexible use as the number of images and the return object can be configured
- Adjustable to your own design through various properties
- Internationalizable by overwriting the standard labels with properties

## Installation

```
npm install --save vuetify-unsplash
```

or

```
yarn add vuetify-unsplash
```

<br>

You must import the material design icons, if you are not using them already.<br>
Note: If you use Vuetify, this is not necessary.

```html
<!-- index.html  -->
<link
  href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@mdi/font@5.x/css/materialdesignicons.min.css"
  rel="stylesheet"
/>
```

## Getting started

### ES module

Register the component globally:

```javascript
// main.js

import Vue from "vue";
import VUnsplash from "vuetify-unsplash";

Vue.component("VUnsplash", VUnsplash);
```

or locally (in the scope of another component):

```javascript
import VUnsplash from "vuetify-unsplash";

export default {
  components: {
    VUnsplash
  }
};
```

##### ! Attention, if you use Vuetify in your project and you use the components in the context of a `v-app` tag, set the property `existing-vuetify-instance` to true, otherwise rendering errors may occur !

## Example Usage

The visibility of the dialog is managed by the v-model attribute.

Once the user has selected the required number of images and clicked save, the @result event with the resulting array of image objects is emitted.

```html
<template>
  <v-unsplash
    v-model="showDialog"
    unsplash-api-key="YOUR_UNSPLASH_API_KEY"
    @result="imageSelectionResult"
  />
</template>
<script>
  import VUnsplash from "vuetify-unsplash";

  export default {
    components: {
      VUnsplash
    },
    data() {
      return {
        showDialog: true,
        myImageList: []
      };
    },
    methods: {
      imageSelectionResult(imageList) {
        // do whatever you want with the result array
        this.myImageList = imageList;
      }
    }
  };
</script>
```

## Properties

### Required Properties

| Property           | Type     | Default | Description                                                                                              |
| :----------------- | :------- | :------ | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `unsplash-api-key` | `String` |         | [Register](https://unsplash.com/developers) your application with Unplash to use the free unlimited API. |

### Functional Properties

| Property                     | Type      | Default | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| :--------------------------- | :-------- | :------ | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `select-multiple`            | `Boolean` | `false` | Set to true if you want to allow the user to select more than one image. <br> The result array could than contain more than 1 element.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `min-multiple-select`        | `Number`  | `1`     | Number of images the user has to choose to proceed. <br> **Has no affect if `select-multiple = false`**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| `max-multiple-select`        | `Number`  | `1`     | Number of images that the user can select at maximum. <br> **Has no affect if `select-multiple = false`**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `full-picture-object-result` | `Boolean` | `false` | By default, the [image object](https://unsplash.com/documentation#search-photos) that Unplash sends in a search query is returned as the result. <br>If this information is not sufficient, this property can be set, then [image objects](https://unsplash.com/documentation#get-a-photo) of a query are returned for the respective image IDs. <br>For more information about the object structure, check the [documentation](https://unsplash.com/documentation) of the Unsplash API. <br><br>If this property is set, however, a request is made to the Unsplash API not only for each search query, but also for each selected image when the "save" button is clicked. <br>This depends on the hourly quota (5000 requests/hour) of the API key. |
| `number-of-images`           | `Number`  | `20`    | Number of image objects that are sent by the API in a search query and displayed in VUnsplash. <br> **The maximum number is `30`.**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `images-per-page`            | `Number`  | `20`    | Number of images to be displayed per grid page by default. The user can overwrite this value from a dropdown menu to customize the view according to his preferences. <br> **The maximum number is `30`.**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `existing-vuetify-instance`  | `Boolean` | `false` | Set this property to `true` if you use the component in the context of a `v-app` tag of Vuetify.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |  |

### Design Properties

| Property            | Type      | Default              | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| :------------------ | :-------- | :------------------- | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `dark`              | `Boolean` | `false`              | Set to true if you want the component in dark mode. You could pass your global dark mode variable here if you have one.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| `accent-color`      | `String`  | `"#1976d2"`          | Accent color for the buttons and other elements. <br> **Please pass only a hex color code here!** <br><br>Note: For more customizability, the App Bar is not affected by this property. The properties of the App Bar can be set using the `app-bar-props` property.                                                                                         |
| `error-color`       | `String`  | `"#C62828"`          | Background color for the snack bar, which notifies the user about the selection limits if he wants to exceed them. <br> **Please pass only a hex color code here!**                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `main-card-props`   | `Object`  | `{}`                 | Here [Vuetify properties for cards](https://vuetifyjs.com/en/components/cards/#api) can be passed as an object. <br> Example: `:main-card-props:"{flat:true, img:"YOUR_IMAGE_LINK"}"`<br> This may overwrite the default values of the main background card of the component and change the view.                                                            |
| `app-bar-props`     | `Object`  | `{}`                 | Here [Vuetify properties for app bars](https://vuetifyjs.com/en/components/app-bars/#api) can be passed as an object. <br> Example: `:app-bar-props:"{primary:"#1976d2", dark:true}"` <br>(The `dark` property will make the text and buttons appear white.) <br> This may overwrite the default values of the app bar of the component and change the view. |
| `save-btn-icon`     | `String`  | `"mdi-content-save"` | [Material design icon](https://materialdesignicons.com/) that appears in the "save" button. Choose any one by adding the prefix "mdi-" to the name of the icon, just like the default value.                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `save-btn-outlined` | `Boolean` | `false`              | Gives the "save" buttons the outlined look                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |

### Label Property

The Label property allows you to use an object with the appropriate translations for the used words. You can pass the i18n strings directly to the object. In this way, the component is translated into exactly the languages that you require and does not contain a second translation system.

###### Attention! If you set the label property with your own strings, you **must replace all elements of the object** , because the whole object will be overwritten!

| Property | Type     |
| :------- | :------- |
| `label`  | `Object` |

The object elements are listed below.

| Object element               | Default value                                               |
| :--------------------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------- |
| `appBarTitle`                | `"Choose an image"`                                         |
| `save`                       | `"Save"`                                                    |
| `searchTextFieldPlaceholder` | `"Search..."`                                               |
| `noMatchingPictures`         | `"No matching pictures were found."`                        |
| `itemsPerPage`               | `"Items per page"`                                          |
| `page`                       | `"Page"`                                                    |
| `of`                         | `"of"`                                                      |
| `loading`                    | `"Loading..."`                                              |
| `selectAll`                  | `"Select all"`                                              |
| `cancelSelection`            | `"Cancel selection"`                                        |
| `maxNumberSelectedError`     | `"You have already selected the maximum number of images."` |
| `alreadySelectedError`       | `"You have already selected an image. "`                    |
| `close`                      | `"Close"`                                                   |
| `selected`                   | `"Selected"`                                                |
| `poweredBy`                  | `"Powered by"`                                              |

Full default label object:

```javascript
label = {
  appBarTitle: "Choose an image",
  save: "Save",
  searchTextFieldPlaceholder: "Search...",
  noMatchingPictures: "No matching pictures were found.",
  itemsPerPage: "Items per page",
  page: "Page",
  of: "of",
  loading: "Loading...",
  selectAll: "Select all",
  cancelSelection: "Cancel selection",
  maxNumberSelectedError:
    "You have already selected the maximum number of images.",
  alreadySelectedError: "You have already selected an image. ",
  close: "Close",
  selected: "Selected",
  poweredBy: "Powered by"
};
```

As property:

```html
<v-unsplash :label=" { appBarTitle: "Choose an image", save: "Save",
searchTextFieldPlaceholder: "Search...", noMatchingPictures: "No matching
pictures were found.", itemsPerPage: "Items per page", page: "Page", of: "of",
loading: "Loading...", selectAll: "Select all", cancelSelection: "Cancel
selection", maxNumberSelectedError: "You have already selected the maximum
number of images.", alreadySelectedError: "You have already selected an image.
", close: "Close", selected: "Selected", poweredBy: "Powered by" }" />
```

## Events

### result

Called when the user has selected the required number of images and clicked on "save".

Usage:

```html
<template>
  <v-unsplash @result="imageSelectionResult" />
</template>
<script>
  import VUnsplash from "vuetify-unsplash";

  export default {
    components: {
      VUnsplash
    },
    methods: {
      imageSelectionResult(imageList) {
        // do whatever you want with the result array
      }
    }
  };
</script>
```
